Achyuth

540-999-8048

achyuth.java88@gmail.com



OBJECTIVE:

Around 8 years of strong software experience in design, development, analysis and deployment of web-based and Client-Server business applications using Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD, OOPS) and Java/JEE/J2EE technologies in Financial, Insurance, and Health Sector Domain with Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC).



PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY:

	Actively involved in each phase of Software Development Life cycle (SDLC).

	Expertise in client scripting language and server scripting languages like HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, NodeJS, JSON, Bootstrap.

	Utilized Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application

	Hands on experience with Amazon web services (AWS) and Amazon cloud technologies such as Amazon EC2 (virtual servers) and Amazon Cloud Watch (monitoring).

	Managed Amazon Web Services like EC2, S3 bucket, ELB, Auto-Scaling, SNS, SQS, AMI, IAM, Dynamo DB, Elastic search, Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) through AWS Console and API Integration.

	Extensive experience working in Spring framework, Struts framework, ORM Mapping Hibernate framework and web services.

	Experience using Spring MVC, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud, Spring DAO, Spring Data, Spring IOC, Spring Annotations, Spring AOP, Spring Transactions and Spring Security.

	Experience in developing applications using Micro Services architecture.

	Expertise in developing reliable and scalable enterprise applications using Servlets, JSPs, Struts, JSTL, JDBC, AJAX, EJB and Web Services.

	Strong work experience in application integration and communicating using SOA, Web Services such as Simple Object Access Protocol(SOAP), Representational State Transfer (REST/ Restful), JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, WSDL, UDDI, Apache CXF, JAXB, XSD, Axis2.

	Excellent knowledge and experience in writing SQL queries, Stored Procedures, Triggers and views using various databases such as MS SQL Server, MySQL, IBM DB2, Oracle databases and NoSQL database systems like Mongo DB.

	Expertise in XML technologies such as XSL, XSLT, XML schemas, XPath, XSL-FO and parsers like SAX, DOM.

	Experienced in JMS over messaging to exchange the information in more reliable and asynchronous way in enterprise Applications. Used Apache Active MQ and Apache Camel as JMS provider.

	Experience in Creating and configuring the continuous delivery pipelines for deploying Micro services and lambda functions using Jenkins CI server.                         

	Experience in developing logging and standard mechanism based on Log4j and SLF4j. 

	Worked on implementing full life cycle of software development process (SDLC) in using version control tools like Git, Rational Clear Case, Tortoise SVN, CVS (Concurrent Version System).

	Hands-on experience working with Continuous Integration (CI) build-automation tools such as Jenkins along with Build Plugins like Maven, Gradle and Apache Ant.

	Experienced in the formation and mentoring of project teams working on Agile methodologies to deliver business critical software applications using tools like Jira.

	Experience in web development tools like Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite, and IntelliJ.

	Hands on experience with Windows, UNIX and Linux Environments.

	Experience in designing, developing, and deploying J2EE applications on IBM Web sphere, Web logic, Apache Tomcat, Glassfish and JBOSS Servers.



TECHNICAL SKILLS

Languages

C, C++, Java 1.8, J2EE, SQL and PL/SQL

Mark-up/XML Technologies

HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, Angular JS, Node JS, XML, XSD, XSL/XSLT, SAX/DOM, DOJO and JSON.

Tools & Framework

Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Spring MVC, Spring Web Flow, Spring IOC, Spring AOP, Spring Security, Spring Boot, JSF, JUnit, Apache CXF, SOAP UI, GWT, Jersey.

Build Automation

ANT, MAVEN, Jenkins, Gradle.

Web services

SOAP, RESTful, UDDI, WSDL, JAX-RPC, JAX-RS, JAX-WS, JAX-B, Micro services, Apache Axis and Apache CFX.

Cloud Technologies

Amazon Web Services (EC2, SQS, RDS, IAM, S3).

Web/App Servers

Web Sphere, Apache, Apache Tomcat, JBOSS EAP, Web Logic Server and Apache Camel

Databases

Oracle, SQL-Server 2005, MySQL server, MS SQL, IBM DB2, NoSQL DB like MongoDB 

IDE tools

Eclipse, Net Beans, Spring Tool Suite (STS) and IntelliJ IDEA, RAD

Modeling/ CASE Tools

Rational Rose and MS Visio Professional.

Testing Tools/ Others

JUnit, TOAD, Soap UI, Putty, Rational Clear Quest, RTC, Load UI and Mockito.

Version Control

Tortoise SVN, CVS, Rational Clear case, Source Tree and Git.

OS & Environment

Windows, Linux, UNIX, Mac

Design Patterns

Singleton, Factory, Prototype, Business Delegate, Session Facade, Service locator, Visitor, Observer, Decorator, Front Controller and DAO pattern.



PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

	Client: Capital One										            Mar 17 – Till date             

	Location: Mclean, VA

	Role:  Full Stack Java Developer

	

	Description: Capital One is the one of largest banking sector, it has over 480,000 members and is among the top 20 credit unions in the U.S.A. Capital One Home Loans servicing is a diversified bank that offers a variety of checking, savings, mortgage and lending accounts and services to individuals, small businesses and commercial clients.

	

	Responsibilities:

	Involved in the complete SDLC (software development life cycle) of the application from requirement analysis to testing. 

	Followed Agile Methodology in analyze, define, and document the application, which will support functional and business requirements. Coordinate these efforts with Functional Architects. 

	Extensively worked on Responsive Web Design (RWD) page development using HTML5, CSS3, JQuery, JavaScript, AngularJS, and JSON.

	Utilized Java 1.8 features like Lambda expressions and Stream API for Bulk data operations on Collections which would increase the performance of the Application.

	Used Java 1.8 features in developing the code like Lambda expressions, creating resource classes, fetching documents from database. 

	Deployed and Monitored Micro Services Using Pivotal Cloud Foundry, also Managed Domains and Routes with the Cloud Foundry.

	Designed, Configured and deployed Amazon Web Services (AWS) for a multitude of applications utilizing the Amazon cloud formation.

	Experienced in setting up Amazon EC2 instances, virtual private cloud (VPCs), and security groups. Setting up databases in AWS using RDS, storage using S3 bucket and configuring instance backups to S3 bucket.

	Implemented the application using Spring IOC, Spring MVC Framework, Spring Batch, Spring Boot and handled the security using Spring Security.

	Developed RESTful API for assessment indicators module and token based authentication for RESTful services using Spring Security.

	Involved in building database Model, APIs and Views utilizing Python, to build an interactive web based solution. 

	Used Jersey to implement Restful Web Service and used XML form to transfer the data. 

	Developed the application using J2EE Design Patterns like Business Delegate, Factory, Singleton, Session Facade, Service Locator and DAO. 

		Worked and involved in deployment of core platform technologies, techniques, and web app frameworks such as spring, JBOSS, Tomcat, JSON, XML, HTML5, and Web Services.

	Used Spring MVC module to develop MVC Architecture. 

	Worked on Apache Camel, RabbitMQ for sending messages over queue. 

	Deployed the Application into Docker container and made easily accessible at runtime using Cloud Foundry and other cloud services like AWS, Netflix Eureka.

	Used Spring Security and OAuth2.0 for Authentication and Authorization of the application.

	Implemented Spring AOP for declarative transaction management.

	Developed a AWS Lambda function to send a request for internal service end points through API Gateway using apache HTTP Client. 

	Managed code versioning with GitHub and deployment to staging and production servers

	Used Rest Controllers to replace the existing operations layer, which acts as bridge between business layer and the UI. 

	Used Jenkins as build management tool for continuous integration process.

	Configured pom.xml to deploy the project using Maven.

	Provided Technical support for production environments resolving the issues, analyzing the defects, providing and implementing the solution defects. 

	

Environment: Agile Methodology, Java1.8, Lambda, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, AngularJS, Bootstrap, JSON, JSP, AWS, Micro Services, Oracle, RabbitMQ, Spring AOP, Hibernate, Spring Cloud, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, JDBC, Web-Services, SOA (Service-oriented) Architecture, Redis, REST, JAX-RS, Jersey, JUnit, JAX-B, WebSphere, JIRA, Maven, GIT, RAD, Jenkins, MongoDB,  Cassandra,.



Client: State Farm										                 Jan 16 – Feb 17 

Location: Dallas, TX

	Role: JAVA Full Stack Developer



Description: Auto Quote Purchase (AQP) application is one of the many applications that are part of SF Auto Systems. Property and Causality being the main forte of State Farm's business the maintenance of all the applications coming under the Auto Systems umbrella is crucial. Auto Quote Purchase (AQP) is one of the many applications that are part of SF Auto Systems. P&C Application support involves production support, defect fixes and minor enhancements based on the SF's requirement. AQP is a web application which is used to gather customer information, generate quote and provides options to purchase the Auto policies. 



Responsibilities:

	Involved in SDLC requirements gathering, analysis, design, development and testing of application developed using AGILE methodology.

	Created user-friendly GUI interface using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JQuery, AngularJS.

	Implemented persistence framework using Hibernate& Handled Transaction Management using the provided data source.

	Responsible for designing Hibernate mapping files based on business logic and Object relationships.

	Developed restful web service APIs using Spring Framework such as Spring Core, Spring MVC, Spring 
AOP and Java Persistence API with a backend PostgreSQL and Cassandra database.

	Involved in developing Web Services to send XML request and reading the response SOAP UI from Java platform.

	Consumed Web Services to interact with other external interfaces to exchange the data in the form of XML and by using SOAP.

	Created Restful Web services using Jersey API (JAX-RS) while data exchange was carried out between application and services using JSON. 

	 Spring MVC, Ajax and Dependency Injection for handling presentation and business logic.

	To maintain loose coupling between layers published the business layer as services and injected the necessary dependent components using Spring IOC and published cross cutting concerns like Logging, User Interface exceptions, Transactions using Spring AOP.

	Integrated spring and hibernate together and worked on developing backend components and services using Hibernate and spring.

	Extensively used HQL and SQL for querying databases. 

	Developed Message Driven Bean for asynchronous sending Messages using JMS.

	Used Apache Camel Framework to transform, extract and load the data.

	Used Spring Core Annotations for Dependency Injection and used Apache Camel to integrate spring framework. 

	Implemented request and response objects using SOAP web services and created routes using Apache Camel. 

	Used Rest methodology for the service layer interface and used JSON for the data transformation.

	Developed various AJAX and JSON calls for the communication between the server and the UI.

	Developed web services for produce and consumed the services by making Web Service Calls to remote services in different applications.

	Used Spring JMS module for lookup for the queues and MDBs for the listeners 

	Established Database Connectivity using Hibernate O/R mapping with Spring ORM for MySQL Server. 

	Developed the Mapping Resource Files for the database entities.

	Packaged and deployed the application in IBM Web sphere.

	Used IntelliJ as IDE to develop the application and followed the standard features for debugging and running.

	Used log4J for application logging and notification tracing mechanisms.

	Analysis and Bug fixing of the production problems and defects along with enhancements

	Used Rational Clear Case for the version control

	Used Maven as the build tool.

	Used J-Unit Testing and Ant Scripts.

	Used JIRA for tracking the Project Stories in AGILE Methodology.



Environment: Agile, Java, JDK, J2EE, HTML5, CSS3, Java Script, JQuery, Ajax, AngularJS, Mongo DB, XML, Spring, Apache Camel, MVC design patterns, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Ant, Maven, Netflix, Rational Clear Case, Web sphere Server, IBM Web Sphere, Apache Camel, SOAP UI, JNDI, Log4J, PostgreSQL, MySQL Server, Google cloud platform, JIRA, RMI, IntelliJ, IDE, LINUX. 

Client: Cigna Healthcare									              Nov 13– Dec 15 Location: Windsor, CT

Role: Java Developer



Description: One view is a web based application helping Customer Services people to view Benefit Plan information for Customers, health care providers. The application helps to resolve; track customer queries online by reducing overall time. The current project is reengineering the old application by replacing outdated Cordiant service layer with Restful Services and Spring Integration frame work improving performance and scalability.



Responsibilities:

Designed and developed the REST based Micro Services using the Spring Boot.

Writing end-to-end flow i.e. controllers classes, service classes, DAOs classes as per the Spring MVC design and writing business logics using core java API and data structures

Design, develop & deliver the REST APIs that are necessary to support new feature development and enhancements in an agile environment. 

Used Spring JMS related MDB to receive the messages from other team with IBMMQ for queuing

Developed presentation layer code, using JSP, HTML, AJAX and JQuery

Developed the Business layer using spring (IOC, AOP), DTO, and JTA

Developed the Persistence layer DAO using HIBERNATE

Worked with Open symphony workflows and delivered work flow module to the client. 

Developed the project using industry standard design patterns like Singleton, Business Delegate Factory Pattern for better maintenance of code and re-usability

Developing application module coded on Spring Batch and Apache Camel. 

Written Jenkins pipeline template script in Groovy programming language for the automation of build and deployment process.

Created groovy scripts to extract transaction volume information and email to management on daily basis. 

Developed unit test cases using Junit framework for testing accuracy of code and logging with SLF4j + Log4j

Worked with defect tracking system Clear Quest

Worked with IDE as Spring STS and deployed into spring tomcat server, WebSphere 6 & used Maven as build tool

Responsible for code sanity in integration stream used Clear Case as version control tool.



Environment: Java, J2EE, HTML, CSS, AJAX, JQuery, MongoDB, Apache Camel, symphony, JavaScript, JSP, Spring, Spring Batch, Spring web services, XML, UML, JUNIT, IBM WebSphere, Maven, Clear Case, SoapUI, Oracle 11g, Spring JMS, IBM MQ.



Client: Liberty Mutual		                                                           			                                 Jan 12 - July 13  

Location: Seattle, WA

Role: Java Developer



Description: Liberty Mutual Insurance is an American diversified global insurer, and the second-largest property and casualty insurer in the United States. Ecommerce application provides services such as Auto Insurance and home insurance. The application is used for accessibility into the appropriate Agent Center applications and generating quotes and policies, payments and reports.



Responsibilities:

Involved in all phases of the Software development life cycle (SDLC).

Designed project related documents which includes Use case, Class and Sequence diagrams.

Involved in design, development, testing and implementation of the process systems, working on iterative life cycles business requirements, and creating Detail Design Document.

Using Agile methodologies to plan work for every iteration and used continuous integration tool to make the build passes before deploying the code to other environments.

	Extensive experience in developing PL/SQL Stored Procedures, Functions, Packages, Cursors, Collections (Nested tables and arrays), Records, Object types and Database Triggers. 

Created HTML Wireframes based in the Detailed System Specification Document Developed the presentation layer of the application using MVC architecture of spring framework. 

Created DAO classes to interact with DB2 database.

Used Spring ORM module to integrate with Hibernate.

Used JMS API for sending and receiving the messages on the queue.

Used the spring validation and Tiles Framework in the presentation layer.

Developed user interface using JSP, Spring Tag Libraries to simplify the complexities of the application.

Developed user interface with Java Server Pages, Ajax support to speed up the application form filling.

Used Apache Axis as the Web Service framework for creating and consuming Web Service clients using SOAP and WSDL.

Used Rally for tracking purpose.

Designed various tables required for the project using DB2 database. Used JBOSS server for deploying the application.

Used Ant for build, create JAR, WAR, EAR files and deploy the EAR files automatically. 

Used Junit to test the application classes.

Used Log4J to capture the logging information.



Environment: Java, J2EE, JavaScript, JSP, AJAX, XML, Agile, Spring, Eclipse IDE, DB2, Rational Rose, Log4j, Junit, Ant, JBOSS, Rally, Apache Axis, Web Service, SOAP, WSDL.



Client: Soft Pro Systems Ltd.                                                                                                                                             Sep 10 - Dec 11

Location: Hyderabad, India							

Role:  Java Developer  



Description: This project is mainly an Intranet application meant for employees in the organization. They are Intranet mailing System, Chatting, File Transfer and Remote Login. This project is based on the client server methodology.



Responsibilities: 

Involved in the design and development of an entire Module – Guided Set Up. Developed user interface through JSP and Servlets. 

Developed Action classes and Action Forms using the struts framework. 

Developed Customs tags to display dynamic contents and to avoid large amounts of java code in JSP pages

Connected to database through JDBC. 

Extensive experience working with XML (DOM and SAX).

Used SQL-server to store the items in the database.

Used Session beans for navigation of steps.

Used Entity beans for storing the database in to database. Developed Session Beans as the clients of Entity Beans to maintain the Client state.

Developed Ant Scripts to build and deploy EAR files on to Tomcat Server. Analyzed the EJB performance in terms of scalability by various Loads, Stress tests using Bean- test tool.

Extensively used Eclipse while writing code as IDE. Written complex SQL queries, stored procedures, functions and triggers in PL/SQL. 

Developed test cases and used Junit for Unit Testing. 

Used CVS for version controlling.

	

	Environment: Java, J2EE, Servlets, XML (DOM and SAX), JSP, EJB, JavaScript, CSS, JDBC, Struts, Ant, Web Logic Application Server, WSAD, Eclipse IDE, SQL-Server, Apache Tomcat, Oracle, PL/SQL, CVS, PVCS, Junit, Windows.

	

Client: 	Login IT Technologies			                                                                                                      May 09 - Aug 10 Location: Hyderabad, India

Role: Java Developer



Description:  PRS or Price reporting system is responsible to publish the rates to the customers and as to maintain the

users across the FedEx locations and its subsidiaries. It interacts with the customer fusion and existing legacy systems to

access the customer information and legacy data.



Responsibilities:

Developed web application using Struts 2.X, JSP, Servlets, Java beans that uses MVC design pattern

Created user-friendly GUI interface and Web pages using HTML, CSS and JSP

Wrote JavaScript for client-side validation.

Used Eclipse as IDE tool for creating Servlets, JSP, and XML.

Wrote SQL for JDBC prepared statements to retrieve the data from database.

Monitored the logs using Log4J and fixed the problem

The application was deployed on the Tomcat.

Involved in build and deploying the application using ANT  

Used CVS as version control system 

Worked on bug fixing and Production Support



Environment: Java, JDBC, Struts, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, JSP, Servlets, Tomcat, Oracle, Eclipse IDE, CVS, ANT, Log4J.
