 
Vinodhini E  
Phone: (+91) -9003689627  
vinodhini.eagambaram@gmail.com  
 
 
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY   
 
❖ 3 years of  experience with  almost 2 years  of experience in designing and developing Big Data  applications 
using  the Hadoop  Ecosystem technologies ( HDFS, Hive, Sqoop, Apache Spark and AWS ) 
❖ Real time experience in Hadoop/Big Data related technology experience in Storage, Querying, Processing  
and analysis of data . 
❖ Understands the Complex Data  Processing  needs  of big data and have experience in developing codes and 
modules to address those needs.  
❖ Capable of processing large sets of Structured  and  Semi -structured  data.  
❖ Worked with different file form ats like  JSON, XML, AVRO  data files and  text files.  
❖ Loaded and transformed  large sets of semi structured data likes XML,  JSON,  Avro,  Parquet . 
❖ Queried data using Spark SQL  on top of Spark engine for faster datasets processing.  
❖ Created multiple Hive tables, running hive queries in those data, implemented Partitioning, Dynamic 
Partitioning, and Bucketing in Hive  for efficient data access.  
❖ Processed web URL data using Scala  and converted it to data frames for further transformations.  
❖ Generated complex JSON  data  after all the transformations for easy storage and access as per client 
requirements.  
❖ Expertise in writing Hadoop Jobs for analyzing  data using Hive . 
❖ Knowledge in installing, configuring , and using Hadoop ecosy stem components like HDFS , Hive, Sqoop, and 
Spark . 
❖ Brought in simplification process and Optimization initiatives to bring efficiency into applications.  
❖ Having hands on experience in deploying spark jobs  over EMR cluster  as a step execution.  
❖ Used Agile methodology  to work with IT and business  team  to progress efficient system development.  
❖ Data base experience in SQL Server  and MYSQL . 
❖ Have good problem solving and analytical skills  and ready  to innovate in order to perform better.  
❖ Have strong Interpersonal skills and  communication sk ills. 
 
 
 
   
TECHNICAL SKILLS  
 
 
• Data Eco  System  : Hadoop,  Sqoop , Hive , Apache  Spark  and AWS   
• Distribution   : Cloudera 5.12  
• Databases   : SQL Server,  MySQL  
• Languages   : Scala , Python , SQL  
