DIVYA RAJAGOPAL				Email id: divyaraj.ably@gmail.com

    							Ph. no: +91-8892486178



SUMMARY

To associate myself in a competitive and challenging environment where I can serve the organization applying my professional skills and establish a challenging career for myself.

AREA OF EXPERIENCE

Pyspark

Unix Shell Scripting

Service Now Incident and change Management

Autosys

Requirement Gathering and Analysis 

Application development & Support

Unit testing

Jira ,Hue, feedhub, actimizer

Github & Jenkins

WORK EXPERIENCE

TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES Ltd:

IT Analyst (APRIL’17 – Till Now (5yrs & 4 Months)):

LIST OF PROJECTS & ROLES INVOLVED



BFS Domain – ETL to Bigdata Migration for a Canada Major Bank (Feb 2020 – Present Date)



ETL to Pyspark Migration – Development & Testing



Project Description:



Financial Crime Management & Technology (FCMT)

	This project is about processing and identifying the list of transactions that are found to be suspicious or fraudulent and generate a detailed report specific to the customer account. Also, we do process and generate customer credit risk management reports based on the credit history of a customer to maintain the sufficient funds allocated from General ledger. 

 





Responsibilities:

Involved in requirement analysis during design phase along with ETL developers.

Understanding the source, target and transformation logics followed in ETL (Abinitio).

Develop the code in Pyspark to migrate the ETL transformations to obtain similar results.

Good Knowledge in performing wide transformations like join, group by functions.

Comparing the intermediate results to match with the legacy (ETL) code output.

Creating the UDF to performing typecasting and other functions wherever required. 

Developed code to handle aggregate and windowing functions in Pyspark.

Performing unit testing in Pyspark.

Optimize the code to yield better performance compared to existing ETL code.

Analyzing issues in production and resolve the same within SLA.

Reading and writing the source and targets into AWS S3.







BFS – Application Development and support for a Canada Major Bank 

AUTOSYS Jobs scheduling and Monitoring



CA-Autosys (4.5.1/11.3.5)

Add, change and/or remove jobs from Autosys instances as requested by customer.

Experience with Autosys batch scheduling utility

Good knowledge on  the various Autosys job types: File watchers, Commands, and Boxes, as well as an in-depth understanding of Autosys job dependency functionality

Creating & Maintaining calendars, users and groups using AUTOSYS_SECURE, AUTOCAL_ASC Utilities.

Performing actions on the Jobs like Force Start, On-ICE, Off-ICE, On-Hold, Off-Hold, Change Status like Kill, Terminate, and Success

Good knowledge of the following Autosys commands: autocal, autocal_asc, jil, autorep, job_depends

Provide Autosys reports and/or data upon request from customers.

Monitor customer jobs and notify customers regarding job failures following established processes.

Notify/Escalate to teams as needed to resolve Autosys monitoring or scheduling issues

Coordinate with the vendor to resolve agent errors and issues as needed
 Status reporting on a daily/weekly basis

Monitoring and making the jobs ready for next run (daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and yearly batches).

Identify and resolve gaps in existing batch processes that enable timely issue identification and troubleshooting (e.g., batch job documentation, alerting tools etc.)







Unix Application Support



Good experience in Handling Incidents and implementing change requests

Worked on Maintaining Unix server and rebooting whenever required.

Analysis of Job failures using the log files and remediating the issue.

Handled various File transfer request between servers via FeedHub application.

Have basic knowledge in python as we have started migration in current project.

Front end support on tools such as Informatica ,SQL, autosys

Doing health check for the prod environment to make it is stable

Experience in WebLogic server activities

Work with internal and external teams for file transferring and end to end success

Informatica session and workflow monitoring and working with application development team









Retail Domain – Application Development and Production support for Batch jobs (Apr’17 to Oct’18)

Unix Shell scripting and Production support 



Analysis of issues with production unix shell scripts

Provision of Code fix and deployment into production server

Job Monitoring and Analysis

Shell script development as part of  POC/Automation.

ALCHEMY TECHSOL Pvt Ltd (Worked for Accenture):


Application Support Engineer (Dec’14 –Mar’17):	

LIST OF PROJECTS & ROLES INVOLVED

Unix Shell Script Development and Automation



Hands on experience in independently developing Unix shell scripts for automation.

Good knowledge on all the unix commands like sed, awk etc.

Hands on experience in writing conditional statements and loops in shell scripts.

Worked on sqlplus utility to connect to oracle database to execute SQL procedures.

Developed scripts to automate the process of collecting information about unresolved tickets post SLA deadline.

Worked on shell scripts that trigger mails to associates about the status using sendmail utility.

Using shell script generated a generic report to track and monitor the incidents/tickets and associated status information that was of major use during service now down time





EDUCATION

Degree

Name of Institute

Year of Passout

Percentage

BE ECE

Dr.Thimmaiah Institute of Technology, KGF.

2014

67%





























DECLARATION

   	  I hereby declare that the above-mentioned details are true to my knowledge and beliefs.



PLACE: Chennai                                                                                        			 SIGNATURE                                                                  DATE:
