JANNU DAMINI			    

E-mail: jannu.damini@gmail.com                                                                                            

Contact-no:   9137795181 

                        

Professional Summary  



Collaborative and Technically-minded ETL Developer with 4 years of experience. Skilled in ETL, Workiva - Cloud Reporting tool, Informatica, Datastage, SQL, Data Analysis, Reporting. Seeks the opportunity to work cross-functionally to design, develop and deploy strategies in ETL Development and Reporting.  



Skills Profile :

	Technical

ETL Tools

Informatica Power Center, Datastage, DAC

Operating System

Windows, Unix

Database

SQL, PL SQL, Teradata, MS SQL Server

Languages

C, C++, Java

	

	Professional Projects :

	

	Client: HONEYWELL, Company: CAPGEMINI, HYDERABAD, Associate Consultant 

	

Technologies: Informatica.  

	

OS: Windows

	

Duration: – Jan 2021 - Mar 2022. 

	

		About

	HONEYWELL is a Peace organizations based in the United States. Honeywell Uranium Hexafluoride Processing FacilityKansas City PlantSandia National Laboratories are the facilities.

	

	

		Roles and Responsibilities :

	

Experience in analysing the requirement and providing adequate information.

Good Experience in tasks.

Creating mappings, tables, Queries, Sessions, Linking.

Experience in Creating Chains useful for Automation using various connectors.

Experience in Presentations.

Accomplished alternate solutions with project estimates.

Developed application enhancements by collaborating with teams.

	

	RCCL Client: Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd., Company: Capgemini, Hyderabad, Senior Software Engineer

	

Technologies: SQL, PL/SQL, Informatica, Unix, .  

	

OS: Windows, Linux 

	

Duration: Aug 2019 – nov 2020 

	

		Roles and Responsibilities :

	

Designed and developed Mappings using Informatica Power Center tool. 

Experience in analyzing, applying transformations, creating reports.

Created scheduled jobs using IBM scheduler. 

Experience in BI Solutions (ETL & Reporting) using Informatica and DDL, DML, DCL commands for various business applications. 

Tested the mappings to view the data got populated according to specified logics in the technical specification document. 

Experience in RDBMS concepts such as Tables, User Defined Data Types, Indexes, Indexed Views, Functions, Table 

Developed mapping to load data in slowly changing dimensions Update Else Insert and updated the flag columns whenever a record is inserted or updated to identify the current record. 

Collaborated with all developers and business users to gather required data and execute all mappings and and implement all data warehouse activities and prepare reports for same.

Improved the existing ETL Jobs with Performance tuning methods and involved in unit testing. 





	ZEBRA Client: Zebra Technologies, Company: Capgemini, Hyderabad, Analyst.

	

Technologies: SQL, PL/SQL, Informatica.

	

OS: Windows

	

Duration: june 2018 – july 2019

		 

		       Roles and Responsibilities: 

	

Learnt about DAC – Data Warehouse Administration Console (Dev, Test and PROD) Execution plans, Task groups, Tables, Tasks. 

Grasped Knowledge on Subject areas like Design, setup, Execute. 

Tested the mappings to view the data got populated according to specified logics in the technical specification document. 

Worked on EP failures, Status descriptions, Run times and Execution Instances. 

	



Academic Details :



Bachelor’s Degree in Computer science (2013-2017), Vignan’s Institute of Information and Technology, Duvvada with an aggregate of 67%

Intermediate in MPC, Narayana Jr College (2011-2013), Vishakhapatnam with an aggregate of 85.3%.

SSC in Sri Ramakrishna School (2011), Vishakhapatnam with an aggregate of 84%.



Trainings :



Trained in Informatica Power Center ETL Tool

Trained in Teradata Database and Oracle SQL, PLSQL

Trained in Unix scripting.



Certification :

Completed certification on Informatica Cloud 101 and 201 in the month of May 2019. 

Completed certification on Data Governance and Privacy (Foundation level) in the month of September 2020. 



Key Skills :



Good Problem solving skills

Attention to Detail

Adaptable Nature

Analytical skills

Communication

Critical thinking



Interests:   Browsing Internet, Travel, Sports.



Languages:  English, Telugu, Hindi
